Hi team! Let's put our individual reflections here. After which, someone can write a short summary. Then, we can put it into whichever html file we choose.


  Ben
Working with Group 7 has been an absolute treat. There has been a theme of helpfulness and everybody is keen to do their bit. A wide range of skillsets from the members has been hugely beneficial.  Andew and Helen jumped in early on to set up some of the things we'd need to work effectively (Discord channel for communications, Smartsheets for interactive checklists to allow for a clear overview of what needs to happen and who's assigned to the tasks). John with his experience of HTML/CSS/front end coding and github has been able to take the lead on website design, and has been assisting us with how to approach both. Sam had the time to leap straight into the assignment content.  The team overall has been very responsive and helpful where required. Everyone is keen to work together, and everyone's want to do well by the assignment and by each other has been lovely.  The group had initially started out with a sixth, Chris Brissett who confirmed on 17/7/20 that he would no longer be able to continue with this project.  Chris had become unresponsive during the course of the project, but eventually did get in touch to let us know that he was no longer able to continue with the task. Because the rest of the team has been working diligently and cohesively, Chris' absence has thankfully not made a strong impact on the effectiveness of the team.


  Helen
  
I really enjoyed collaborating with this group on this assignment.  We all worked so well together and it was encouraging to watch everyone help each other with their skillsets.  It was like working on a paid project with each person playing their role and utilising their strengths.  Andrew was always willing to do what he could with the content and setting up systems, Ben is a natural leader who happily helps to steer the ship, Johnny is a workhorse, he just handled things!  So much work done in the backend by this man and Sam was so well rounded in his ability to help everywhere.  I really enjoyed what I thought was going to be a stressful event.  No one made anyone feel like a useless part of the team and I can honestly say I am so proud of what we have achieved from different locations of Australia and feel honoured to have worked with these men.  I hope to collaborate with them again in the future. 
   
  John
Working on this assignment with the members of Group 7 has been a great experience. Everyone was ready to put their hand up quickly to take on a task that needed attention, and we were all ready to help each other out when help was asked for.
Andrew was quick to set up a Discord channel for everyone to communicate on. We were in constant communication throughout the whole assignment period and as such didn’t need to set up specific meetings. Andrew, Ben and Helen were all quick off the mark to get the team organised. The Discord channel as I mentioned, Google Docs to write out a plan and key points, and a Smartsheet document to track who was doing what task, their progress, and important comments. Sam was quick to take on tasks and used his time well to produce content and help review other member’s content.
Everyone was prompt and diligent with updating files on the GitHub repository and communicating progress with the other group members. The only exception was Chris, who was late to join the conversation and then quickly dropped out of communication. This was due to circumstances outside his control, and unfortunately he had to quit the project and the subject before completion. Luckily this did not affect the team or our progress. As I said, everyone was ready to work and help out where needed. I feel lucky to be part of such a great team.

   
  Andrew
Working with our team was amazing throughout this assignment. While I was originally quite nervous about not finding a team to work with and how this would impact my performance in the unit, my concerns were very quickly eliminated due to the high competency of the team members and our ability to work cohesively, efficiently and harmoniously. All members of our team were in constant communication with each other through our Discord group which was both fantastic to see and allowed us the transparency to track where we were and plan our time accordingly to ensure all tasks were completed. Unfortunately, one member, Chris, did not contribute. That said, I full-heartedly believe that this was more to that team member's detriment, rather than ours as they missed out on the experience we had. It was an amazing introduction to group-based assignments and I can only hope in future when group assignments are again required that I can work with a team as supportive, informative and knowledgeable as this one. I wish them all well in their studies.
  
  Sam
Being apart of group 7, or GS Technologies, has been the ideal first group assignment scenario. Everyone has pitched in what they feel is equal amounts, and open communication has been prevalent since day 1. Ben mobilisd the group in canvas as soon as it formed, Andrew formed the discord channel, helen created the smartsheet that tracked the tasks, and John managed the Github side of things. Google docs were used as a way of sharing content and enabling each member to review other members' work. There was a very democratic governance of the group. All though there was no elected leader, each decision was put forward to the group, and voted on formally through polls (set up by helen), or discussed and decided on in discord. The only thing I would change is the reviewing of each others work. I feel it was a little inefficient, as some team members assessed nearly evey other team member's work. If I had the time over again, I would implement a buddy system or something similiar where each member checks only one or two other team members' work, so the load is spread more evenly. It says something about the dynamics of this team where my only criticism is that some people worked too hard. 
Unfortunately we had a 6th member who came in late and left just before the deadline. This didn't affect the group very much, as we had already divided almost all tasks when chris joined, and talks had been had already about the possibility of only having 5 members had been broached. Great group!

  
  Summary
