Personal Profiles 

Name: Samuel Hopkins
Student Number: s3864355
Email: s3864355@student.rmit.edu.au

Hi My name is Sam. I am 29 and live in Brisbane. I love camping and exploring 
the less touched places of Australia. My interest in IT has mainly been through 
gaming, however coding interests me a lot. I have no formal education in IT, however,
 I have completed a few online introductory courses on JavaScript and HTML/CSS. 




Name: Helen Nowlan
Student Number: s3866210
Email: s3866210@student.rmit.edu.au 

Hello! My name is Helen.  I am 45 and live in Perth Western Australia.  I run my own business 
in the Aged Care Sector called Compatible Care Nursing Services.  I love working my job is 
extremely fulfilling.  I have a husband two kids who are 10 (Girl) & 7 (Boy) that are my world.
My present hobbies are running after my two and I also attend dance and musical theatre classes
as I love to dance and sing.  I have a passion in IT software and want to learn to create my 
own programs.  I have no formal education in IT but a lot of on the job experience.  




Name: Ben Matthews
Student Number s3851558
Email: s3851558@student.rmit.edu.au

Hello! My name is Ben, I’m from Perth. I’m a gamer and a musician, and love learning 
about all sorts of new things, especially in the realms of movement 
(parkour, martial arts), philosophy, music, psychology and now, all things IT.  
I love exploring the world around us, and so exploring this digital age and how 
we interact with it is right up my alley.  I’m fairly fresh to the field of IT, 
but have had a little experience with HTML and CSS, and have helped to manage and 
maintain wordpress websites.




Name: Andrew Moroney
Student Number: s3868254
Email: s3868254@student.rmit.edu.au

Hi my name is Andrew. I am 26 years old and live in West Gippsland, Victoria. I 
enjoy catching up with friends over a drink in the city, and traveling within Australia
 and internationally. I have limited experience in IT, but have basic knowledge of SQL, 
 HTML, CSS and using the Adobe Creative Suite products. I’m looking forward to learning 
 more about Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning, and software development. 



Name: John Ross
Student Number: s3476963
Email: s3476963@student.rmit.edu.au

Hi, my name is John and I’m from Melbourne, Victoria. I have a background in Economics and currently work as a Web Developer.
I really enjoy the UI/UX design aspect of building websites. I focus on front-end development, so I am particularly confident in my JavaScript and CSS skills.
The IT world is vast, and I am looking forward to exploring other fields such as machine learning and robotics.
In my free time I enjoy playing guitar in a rock band with friends and hitting the golf course on a sunny day. 
